[Music]
so an independent review of the United
Nations relief and works Agency for
Palestinian refugees has found that
Israel has still not provided supporting
evidence of its claims that employees of
Rena are Hamas members who were involved
in the October the 7th attacks the
report by a former French foreign
minister found Staffing lists had
regularly been provided for vetting
since 2011 but Israel didn't raise any
concerns Israel's allegations against
Ina LED major donors in January to cut
their funding to the agency which is the
main humanitarian provider in Gaza so
let's bring in Gabriel Londo joins us
now from the United Nations Headquarters
in New York and gab so tell us more
about this uh what more we
know yeah this report is an independent
report commissioned by the Secretary
General looking into allegations that uh
uh unra is biased I'll read you the
title of the report it's independent
review view of mechanisms and procedures
to ensure adherence by unra to
humanitarian principles of neutrality
that is the key this report led by the
former French foreign minister and three
human rights organizations from Europe
uh spent nearly three months
interviewing hundreds of people looking
at thousands of documents and they
concluded that unra has for the most
part adhered to principles of neutrality
the first question is does unra have uh
uh procedures of neutrality the report
which will be released publicly in about
2 hours States and it's a 48 page report
we're going through it we've got some
eyes on it so we're still going through
it but one part says the review revealed
that unra has established a significant
number of mechanisms and procedures to
ensure with compliance with humanitarian
principles it possesses a more developed
approach to neutrality than others
similar in un or NGO entities the report
also states that uh unra gives a list of
all of its employees nearly
32,000 to uh uh the Israeli authorities
on a yearly basis and as of uh since
2011 it says the Israeli government has
not informed unra of any concerns
relating to any unrest staff based on
the staff lifts that's since 20
and the report also says that uh uh
Israel as we know has accused uh 12
unrest staff members of taking part in
the October 7th attacks the report
confirms that Israel has not given any
evidence whatsoever to back up those
claims to this independent uh commission
and gab there's a second report on
Israel's claims what's that
about yeah this report that I was just
talking about this just deals with the
issue isue of neutrality and essentially
as I just laid out points it unra does
have procedures of neutrality in place
uh the second uh in in investigation is
an internal investigation being done by
the UN office of internal oversight that
is being done in secret that is
basically an internal review and uh that
has not been concluded yet and we do not
know when that will be released or even
if it will be released uh but that
report is looking
specifically at the 12 employees that
Israel claims uh are part of Hamas and
took PL took part in October 7th again
that report internal that is being done
right now and we do not know when we'll
get uh information on that one again
that one just looks at the 12 employees
Gabriel thanks for that that's a story
from un headquarters in New York Gabriel
Londo there thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler